OK so now a theme is already to be translated so I will show you next how to do a process call localization.
This mainly consists of create a template file called a pot file and it stands for portable object template.
And this will basically be a directory or a catalogue of all the translatable words in the theme.
And then we use the content of this profile to create a peel file which will actually hold the Translate
strings in in a language your choice.
So we're going to get started with some software called p-o edit.
So I'm going to go to Google and search for p-o at it.
And then select peel at it dot net which should be the top one.
Peel and it will be the software we use to actually do the language conversion and it's free to download
for Mac Windows or Linux.
There is a pro version which makes it a little bit easier but we don't need that for now.
So simply click on the free download for your operating system.
And give us a few moments just to download.
So once it's downloaded.
Unzip the file.
Download it in the usual way.
So then I put mine in the applications for the.
So want to get started.
You should see a welcome window similar to this.
No we to create our pot or template file in pln it go to file and then new.
And then select the language of your theme.
So mine is English and then press enter.
Okay.
So then if you go up to the catalogue at the top and then go to properties.
So start with some project information and we'll call mine tranquil new.
And then we need to tell people where the sources of the translatable words so go to the sources key
words tab.
And then to add some key words.
Select the second button which is for the new item.
So you want to get started with the two underscores and the two underscores was the prefix that we use
for these functions.
So add that up and hit enter.
And then again add one more which was the underscore and E which was the echo function.
So enter.
I'm going to also add one more.
Four escaped strings so escape.
SC underscore our tribute on this score.
So that also that one in.
And any of the key words that you use in your themes make sure you add these in to and then go to okay.
And then go to extract from sources.
I will need to say this file first before I would do that.
So go to file and then save us.
And then this is gonna be our pot file.
So when I say this into our theme of the theme folder and make sure that the languages folder that were
created is open.
So the Feme name were added was tranquil hyphen new.
And then when he'd say this as a pot file but by default it shouldn't nose do that it will automatically
say was a peel file.
So you can just use p o.
And then I can just manually change the extension.
If you go into the languages folder.
So just click on the file which is created and change the file extension to p o t.
And then use that.
OK.
So then go back into p or edit and when to extract the text to be translated.
So sled extract from sources at the bottom.
Okay so next will add the path to our Were our theme.
So underneath the pass click on the plus icon and go to add folders and then select the theme folder
and then select the truckled WP theme and then open.
And then click on OK.
So now our pop file has instructed all the text strings from all thien.
This is now our catalogue that we can use as a template.
So save up.
And next we can use this template create a peel file which will hold the Translate strings Sogo to create
new translation and then we need to select the language of the translation that we want so we can just
select a language that you like to translate to.
So I'm going to pick a random one syllable for Greek and then.
Okay.
So now if you look at the top of the page we've got a l file called E L which is the Greek prefix.
So and when I say the.
And again make sure this is in the languages folder and then hit save.
So now one go through the.
Strings will consider that some translation suggestions appear on the right.
Or we can manually typed them in up the bottom so is just a case of selecting the text if we want to
translate.
And then uddin that inner angle for these monthly admin or click on the suggestions and then get the
Greek translation appearing on the right.
So once you finish it up just hit the save button.
So now when you go back in to the theme and the language is folder which should now have the port file
which is a template and then we should have two files with the file name of the country you've selected
and want an end in P L which is the translation and then bossiest a m o file which if you go back into
the documentation you can see this is the actual compiled machine readable version of the kill file.
So we also need that too.
So that's it.
That's how you translate your theme into different languages.
You may not necessarily have to add the piel files into your Feme bore as long as we've got the template
file on the file we can allow end users to translate into their own particular language.
So there goes the function watchin.
And that's the end of the translation section.